# Impact-of-General-News-Headlines-on-a-Stock-Market-using-Sentiment-Analysis
An ensemble system is introduced which consists of five sub-systems: Naive Bayes, SVM, Logistic Regression, Random Forest, and MLP.


About Datasets: The influence of Pakistan's political events on the Karachi Stock Exchange for Sentiment Analysis is analyzed.
Stock history data is collected from January 1, 2020 to March 31, 2020 and Pakistan's Political situation data was retrieved from December 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020. In news headlines dataset, the data is categorized into positive and negative political events. 

For building this Sentiment Analyzer, a total of five Machine Learning models were chosen based on their efficiency. The chosen models are Naive Bayes, Support Vector Machine, Logistic Regression (a classifier), Random Forest, and Neural Network
Multi-layer Perceptron. The results from each of these sub-systems were combined using the Majority Voting concept. In majority voting, when test data arrives, the data, in our case news headlines data, is passed to all of the classifiers, and then the predictions made by the individual classifiers are combined on the basis of how many classifiers predicted 0 (Negative) for the test sample and how many of them predicted 1 (Positive) for this sample. The label with the highest count is considered the final label (prediction) for that given news headlines test sample.

For correlation analysis, two datasets are used, one is the news headlines dataset and the other is the stock market dataset. The stock market dataset consisted of many columns representing market stock values for Open, Close, High, and Low. For our study, we needed the value that represents the starting value of the day i.e. the Open value only. The reason is that what we are predicting is the effect of the previous day’s news on the next day’s stock price i.e. how the news that runs on say day ’X’ affects the market on day ’X+1’. The data was not available to study this correlation, so extra cleaning and preprocessing steps were applied to bring the data to a suitable format for analysis. First of all, the Negative and positive class labels were converted to numeric class labels i.e. 0 and 1 for the News Headlines dataset, because correlation analysis is performed on numeric values. The dataset for January to February was prepared, in which there are three columns Date, Previous Day News Sentiment, and Next Day Open Price. This way if ’X+1’ day’s stock market value existed then for each news headline on day ’X’, we duplicated the ’X+1’ day’s stock market open value. This way we can understand the correlation between each individual headline and its impact on the next day’s price.
